Created by ©Yozuki  |  #VisitUs  t.me/Yozukilk
Hey! Make it stop!
What in the world was that?!
16bit Sensation:
Another Layer
"Echo"
Sensei! What's with him?!
Looks like a guest has dropped
in through the ceiling.
Is that how guests are supposed to come in?
I heard they used a thing
called an "entrance"!
Perhaps you could call it a
multidimensional entrance.
Ah, he's awake!
What year are we in right now?
It's the year 1985.
1985?
Latest
Model!
Recommended
Where is it?
Not that!
Where could it be?!
Latest model!
There!
The PC-9801 U!
Released in May 1985, it's the first
model with 3.5" floppy drives!
Which means...
What?!
It really is the year 1985!
Amazing!
By the way, what is this place?
This is Echosoft, a small, brand-new
software company in Akihabara.
Waah!
When I opened the video game case,
there was a bright light and
I traveled back in time.
Gogo no Tenshi-tachi
Gogo no Tenshi-tachi is a game from 1985.
In other words, you're sent back to the
release year of the game you open.
Is that how it works?
And this place...
It's the Alcohol Soft building!
This place was a game studio even
before Dad opened up his shop here?
But how do I get back to the
world that I came from?
How did Konoha go back, again?
Mamoru-san.
How about it?
Would you like to make games with us?
Huh?
The truth is, we began creating something
called "bishojo games" just the other day.
However, we don't have any
clue on what makes a good one.
Indeed!
Therefore, Mamoru-san, could
we ask you to help us?
On one condition.
A PC-98.
Let me use a PC-98.
I'd be happy to work for you then.
Very well.
I forgot to introduce myself.
Hm?
I'm the head of Echosoft, Echo.
I'm an Echosoft employee, Echo!
Okay, Mamoru-san.
We'll have you start working
for us right away.
Sure.
I started working part-time at Echosoft,
a company I came across when
I traveled back in time.
Basically the exact same
thing that Konoha did.
The people at this company know
my name for some reason,
and had no qualms in
letting me work for them.
I can't help but worry how
Konoha's game will turn out,
but if I'm in the year 1985, you could
say that time has basically stopped.
Nothing will come out of worrying about it.
Since I don't know how to get back,
I had no choice but to stay here.
That said, Echosoft is a strange company.
They call themselves a game studio,
but there are only two people working here.
What's more, the president's
name is also Echo.
His assistant's name is Echo, too.
Even their dog's name is Echo.
You can't be serious.
Echo
Well, I'm not one to butt
in on other people's business.
Since I've been hired part-time,
I'll put in my wage's worth.
Game programming is a part of my duties.
The president, Echo One, gets an
astounding amount of work done,
and he develops games
at an incredible speed.
Graphic artist, scenario
writer, sound composer,
not to mention programmer.
Echo One has taken on all of those roles.
Echosoft Bishojo Game vol.
Well, that wasn't too uncommon in the 80s.
This is an old technique called
"cling wrap scanning".
You copy the line art, like this...
and then trace over it in a graphics editor.
No mouse involved.
Here, he's actually composing
the background music.
Music Macro Language, or MML for short,
is a specialized description language that
he's using to type out the musical score.
You can also use dedicated
programs to compose music,
but for some people,
writing MML directly is much faster.
To draw the characters, he's using a
special tool called a pattern editor.
As you can see, he can use it to
make pixel art of the characters,
and it also allows you to
create animations for them.
Hey, do you have a minute?
Yes, what is it?
How come you're not using any green?
There are only eight
colors available to use.
No, I know that much.
This character has blue armor.
I'll use green for a different character.
Ah.
So I guess this black part is
supposed to be the shadow, then?
That's right.
Can you let me try something?
Sure...
How's that?
Well, well.
It looks just like a commercial game.
This is what's called dithering.
Well, I'm just going off what I've seen.
Mamoru-san, could you teach
me some other things as well?
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
For example, there's no need to
use the PSG for sound effects.
If you use system beeps like this...
I see, I see.
You're a programmer, but you
can do all sorts of stuff.
Of course I can.
Programmers are the kings
of game development.
In the past, it used to be that programmers
would have to do everything by themselves.
Incidentally, the games
we're making are for PC-88.
Keep It Neat & Tidy
This may be a shady game company,
but what they're doing is no
different from a normal studio.
Keep It Neat & Tidy
However, their speed is
on a different level.
Echo One never goes through trial and
error, or makes any corrections.
It may sound absurd,
but in just one day, he can complete
a surprisingly hefty game.
Echosoft Bishojo Game vol. 39
Instant beyond belief.
His assistant, Echo Two,
always wears weird clothes and asks me
to give her a score on how cute she is.
Mamoru-kun!
How many points do I get today?
I don't really get it, so I
just make up random numbers.
Apparently this is also part of my job.
Maybe I can just stay here...
Guess not.
Imagination
Do you really need this many TVs to watch?
One should be more than enough.
It's all just the same program.
Do they look the same to you?
To me, they all look quite different.
An utter failure, it seems.
What's this?
This is a device to measure
the energy that a game has.
Gogo no Tenshi-tachi
An interesting game contains lots of energy.
Huh...
What an odd device.
The games that I make are
completely devoid of energy.
Well, I don't know whether
fun translates into energy,
but I can't tell from the design of
the box that it would be any fun.
Echosoft Bishojo
Game vol. 39
Is that something that you imagine?
How can you not imagine it?
I don't have the power to imagine anything.
I came from a place where
imagination doesn't exist.
Therefore, I don't understand it.
Every time, my calculations are correct,
but when I actually create a game,
it doesn't have any of the thermal
power that I'd expected.
To learn about this thing
called imagination...
That's why I'm creating these games.
Neat & Tidy
Mamoru-kun!
Hm?
How many points do I get today?
I was surprised at the idea of anyone in the
world completely lacking an imagination,
but teaching someone what imagination
was turned out to be fairly difficult.
It doesn't make any sense
to not have an imagination.
You know what a donut tastes like, right?
For the ones that I've eaten, I do.
These two donuts taste basically the same.
Knowing that, you should be able
to imagine how this one tastes.
That's not imagination.
It's reasoning based on experience.
No, that's not my point.
Um...
Now I'm getting confused here...
Mamoru-san.
Your kind have the ability to feel
that something is interesting.
You can sense how other people
feel, as if it was yourself.
Imagination
In other words, that's imagination.
You can explain it to me,
but not understand it yourself?
This is nothing more than analysis.
I wasn't using my imagination.
Hmm...
Imagination.
What is imagination?
One day, Echo Two disappeared.
And a full week passed without her return.
Two's been missing for a while.
You're right.
Is that all you have to say?
Aren't you worried about her?!
Worried?
What is that?
She vanished under unnatural circumstances.
What if she's in danger right now?
Echo's just fine.
There's zero risk of her being in danger.
Is she really okay?
Yes.
That said, it sure is inconvenient
without her around.
I'm going to go look for Two.
Echosoft Bishojo Game
I wonder what kind of games
Mamoru-san finds interesting.
Where have you been?
Mamoru-kun!
What are you doing here?
Don't give me that.
You didn't come back,
so I came looking for you.
Why?
Why, you ask...
Well, I guess it's no big deal
since I ran into you here,
but of course I'd be worried, after you went
missing for a week without a word!
Worried?
What does "worried" mean?!
What have you been up to over the past week?
I went on a walk with Echo!
That's one hell of a trek.
Okay, I'm heading back.
Mamoru-kun!
I'll go back with you!
How many points do I get today?
Akerue!
Huh?
Sensei.
I understand what imagination is now.
What is it, then?
I can't explain it.
I don't have any way of
putting it into words.
Is that so?
Perhaps I've come to an
understanding of sorts as well.
Let us merge into one.
Please come up to the rooftop
Were there always this many stairs?
Up here, Mamoru-san.
Hello, Mamoru-san.
What's with the get-up?
I was performing maintenance on the device.
You can see all of Akihabara up here.
Did this building always go up this high?
Mamoru-san.
What do you think about this town?
Compared to '99, it's not as bright.
I can see it.
The abundance of energy
gathering in this town.
In time, this will become a place
where anything is possible.
That's the future that awaits this town.
This isn't reasoning based
on my observations.
It's what I imagine.
You gained the power to imagine things?
Mamoru-san.
What do you think about the
human power of imagination?
Beats me. I'm an engineer.
I let people like Konoha or Kyonshi
deal with cultural ideas like that.
A world where fantastic
monsters roam freely.
A paradise floating in the sky.
The dead rising from their graves.
A place that exists nowhere.
The power to recall things that
don't exist, and give them form.
All humans have the power to
create things of that nature,
as well as to experience them.
Perhaps that's what makes them human.
Don't you think?
The games that we created,
along with manga, novels, movies,
countless tales dating
back to ancient times,
not to mention religions,
nations, communities,
dreams, hopes, and despair.
All of these are concepts created
through a shared imagination.
You can't just explain every
single thing with imagination!
Sounds like you're the one
imagining things now.
I know that you're well aware, Mamoru-san.
Of the energy that gathers when
imagination is unleashed.
You should have experienced
it not too long ago.
Isn't that right?
An earthquake?
An exceedingly rare kind of lifeform.
Through their imagination, humans
become multidimensional beings,
and access present, past, future...
Different space-times, different events...
Gaining massive energy from
quantum possibilities.
Upheld by thermodynamics as well.
You people...
What exactly are you?
Your kind are the future.
As well as the past.
And the present.
Imagination has the power to
alter both time and space.
Imagination is what defines reality.
I'm a supporter of the
games that you all have made.
I know we'll meet again someday.
Theme for our next title
Interesting
Game
that will
earn one
billion yen
We can do it!
I see.
So that's what it's like.
I left everything I bought behind...
"See You Later!"↵
HELP for help
MENU1      MENU2     MENU3      SPLIT         FIND           REPLACE      CUT         COPY       PASTE     TAG:JP
Created by ©Yozuki  |  #VisitUs  t.me/Yozukilk